feat: step by step guide (#44)
Moonsong-Labs/double-zero: docs/step-by-step-guide.md

# Step-by-step full guide

Double Zero is a framework that provides privacy and access control for ZKsync-compatible chains.

This guide walks you through the complete process of setting up a local Double Zero environment, which includes a
private validium chain and a dapp built on the Double Zero framework.

## 1 - Deploy your validium chain

Our chain will be deployed using [zkstack](https://zkstack.io/). ZKstack enables you to create custom validium chains
tailored to your needs. For this guide, we'll use the basic deployment, but you can consult their documentation for more
customized configurations.

### 1.1 - Install rust

ZKstack requires Rust to be installed. The simplest way to install Rust is through Rustup. While you can use any
installation method you prefer, make sure you have an up-to-date version.

```
# rustup
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh

# stable rust
rustup install stable
```

### 1.2 - Install zksync foundry:

We need zksync foundry to deploy the contracts that we’ll be using. Foundry can be installed following this guide:

https://foundry-book.zksync.io/getting-started/installation

> ### 1.3 - install docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.3 - Install docker
```

```
cd <your_chain>

zkstack ecosystem init --dev

zkstack server run
```

This is going to run all the local chain components and expose an rpc in the port 3050.

### 1.6 - Start contract verifier

The contract verifier is used to check contract source code against deployed byte-code. This is going to be used in the
explorer to display the source code and ABIs of contracts.

You are going to be prompted about the versions of compilers that you want to support. Please choose solc at least
0.8.24 and zksolc at least 1.56. This is going to be used to verify contracts of our dapp.

In a new terminal run the following commands:

```
zkstack contract-verifier init

zkstack contract-verifier run
```

Once this is done you are going to have the verifier running in the port 3070.

### 1.7 Getting some funds

At this stage you might want to send some local ETH to an address that you control. That can be done like this:

Open another terminal and run the following command:

```bash
npx zksync-cli \
  bridge \
  deposit --rpc=http://localhost:3050 \
  --l1-rpc=http://localhost:8545
```

This is going to open a wizard. One of the default rich private keys is

> `0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110` , as the target you can you se any address that you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110` , as the target you can use any address that you
```

control:

```bash
? Amount to deposit 111
? Private key of the sender 0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110
? Recipient address on L2 <your_address>
```

> After this i s done you are going to have funds ready to use in your local validium chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this is done you are going to have funds ready to use in your local validium chain.
```

to make this work is by connecting the validium chain using your local ip. You can use this commands to get your local
ip:

```bash
# linux
ifconfig wlan0 | grep "inet " | grep -Fv 127.0.0.1 | awk '{print $2}'

# mac
ipconfig getifaddr en0

# windows
ipconfig
```

We are going to use your ip to link the validium rpc and the contract verifier.

Let’s go ahead end edit the file `environments/compose-hyperchain.env`. You should make it look this:

```bash
# Validium chain rpc
TARGET_RPC="http://<your-ip>:3050"
CONTRACT_VERIFICATION_API_URL="http://<your-ip>:3070"

# Conf
CORS_ORIGIN_PROXY="http://localhost:3010"
CORS_ORIGIN_RPC="*"
# Secret to encript block explorer cookie. In production this has to
# be a secure value.
SESSION_SECRET="0101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101"
# Secret used to communicate between proxy and private rpc. This
# has to be a secure value in productioon.
CREATE_TOKEN_SECRET="sososecret"

# App
APP_API_URL=http://localhost:4040
APP_BRIDGE_URL=http://localhost:3000/bridge
APP_HOSTNAMES=localhost
APP_ICON=/images/icons/zksync-arrows.svg

> # Here you need to set your cahin id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Here you need to set your chain id
```
